README.md, before:

# Plants vs. Zombies (Simplified, Pygame)

A minimal tower-defense game built with `pygame`. Place plants on a 5×9 lawn grid to generate sun, shoot peas, and block zombies. Survive the waves to win.

> Note: The screenshots referenced below use placeholder paths. Please save your attached images into `resources/screenshots/` with the filenames shown, or adjust the image links accordingly.

## Description
A lightweight Pygame demo of the classic tower-defense idea: manage resources (sun), place plants (Sunflower, Peashooter, WallNut), and defend lanes from advancing zombies. Designed for beginners and coursework demos, featuring clean OOP structure, simple visuals, and scalable wave difficulty.

## Features
- Grid-based lawn with clear placement and UI buttons
- Plants:
  - Sunflower: periodically generates sun
  - Peashooter: fires bullets at zombies in its row
  - WallNut: high HP blocker
- Zombies: lane-based movement, contact attacks, HP bars
- Sun system: falling suns and plant-generated suns, click to collect
- Waves: increasing difficulty with shorter spawn intervals
- Game states: HUD, win/lose overlay, restart with `R`

## Target Audience
- Beginners learning Python game loops, events, and OOP
- Course demos and small competition projects
- Pygame learners exploring drawing, collisions, timing
- Hobbyists prototyping tower-defense mechanics

## Getting Started (Windows)
- Requirements: `Python 3.8+`, `pygame`
- Install dependencies:
```bat
pip install pygame
```
- Run the game from this folder:
```bat
python 植物大战僵尸.py
```
- Controls: Click a plant button, then click a grid cell to place. Click suns to collect. Press `R` to restart, `Esc` or close window to exit.

## Project Structure
```
python游戏制作/
├─ 植物大战僵尸.py
└─ resources/
   └─ screenshots/  # add your images here
```

## Screenshots
Place your images in `resources/screenshots/` and update paths if needed.

![Screenshot 1](resources/screenshots/screenshot1.png)

![Screenshot 2](resources/screenshots/screenshot2.png)

![Screenshot 3](resources/screenshots/screenshot3.png)

## Roadmap Ideas
- Art & audio: sprite sheets, animations, SFX
- More plants/zombies: ice peas, double shooters, bucket/football zombies
- Level progression: selectable stages, boss waves, curves
- Balancing: tuned HP/DMG/AS, playtesting
- Save & stats: progress, best waves, time, kills
- Input & performance: hotkeys, scaling, FPS tweaks
- Smarter AI: behaviors, targeting, lane pressure
- Modularization: split into packages for plants, zombies, UI
- Testing & CI: unit tests for core logic, auto checks

## License
Recommend using MIT or BSD-3-Clause. Add a `LICENSE` file before publishing.

Commit message:

Add MIT LICENSE and refine README Contributing

README.md, after:

# Plants vs. Zombies (Simplified, Pygame)

A minimal tower-defense game built with `pygame`. Place plants on a 5×9 lawn grid to generate sun, shoot peas, and block zombies. Survive the waves to win.

## Description
A lightweight Pygame demo of the classic tower-defense idea: manage resources (sun), place plants (Sunflower, Peashooter, WallNut), and defend lanes from advancing zombies. Designed for beginners and coursework demos, featuring clean OOP structure, simple visuals, and scalable wave difficulty.

## Features
- Grid-based lawn with clear placement and UI buttons
- Plants:
  - Sunflower: periodically generates sun
  - Peashooter: fires bullets at zombies in its row
  - WallNut: high HP blocker
- Zombies: lane-based movement, contact attacks, HP bars
- Sun system: falling suns and plant-generated suns, click to collect
- Waves: increasing difficulty with shorter spawn intervals
- Game states: HUD, win/lose overlay, restart with `R`

## Target Audience
- Beginners learning Python game loops, events, and OOP
- Course demos and small competition projects
- Pygame learners exploring drawing, collisions, timing
- Hobbyists prototyping tower-defense mechanics

## Getting Started (Windows)
- Requirements: `Python 3.8+`, `pygame`
- Install dependencies:
```bat
pip install pygame
```
- Run the game from this folder:
```bat
python 植物大战僵尸.py
```
- Controls: Click a plant button, then click a grid cell to place. Click suns to collect. Press `R` to restart, `Esc` or close window to exit.

## Project Structure
```
python游戏制作/
├─ 植物大战僵尸.py
└─ resources/
   └─ screenshots/  # add your images here
```

## Screenshots
![Screenshot 1](resources/screenshots/screenshot1.png)
![Screenshot 2](resources/screenshots/screenshot2.png)
![Screenshot 3](resources/screenshots/screenshot3.png)

## License
MIT

## Contributing
- Fork and create a feature branch.
- Keep code simple and consistent with existing style.
- Include brief docstrings for new classes/functions.
- Update README if you add plants, zombies, or gameplay features.
